/goal Recreate ScriptStudio as a complete, locally runnable script-to-video application in the selected workspace. Work through implementation, local verification, documentation, and local deployment until the acceptance conditions below are met. Deliver working software, not a mockup or a plan alone.

WORKSPACE AND SCOPE
Inspect the workspace and any AGENTS.md, README, PLAN.md, architecture, and verification documents first. If it is an existing ScriptStudio checkout, preserve user projects, media, credentials, unrelated edits, and established behavior while closing gaps. If it is empty, scaffold the application and initialize Git. Use the selected workspace, not a hard-coded personal directory. Keep milestones and evidence in PLAN.md. Work autonomously on routine reversible implementation choices; respect environment approvals and pause for genuinely missing authorization or destructive operations. No paid provider calls are authorized: the generation spending ceiling for this build is USD 0. Do not enter, display, or commit real credentials. This ceiling concerns the application's generation providers, not the cost of running Codex itself.

PRODUCT
Build a polished single-user local video studio named ScriptStudio with a React/TypeScript frontend built by Vite, a FastAPI backend, PostgreSQL, Celery workers, Redis wakeups, persistent local media, libopenshot visual composition, and FFmpeg processing. Provide Docker Compose with migrations, health checks, API, worker, scheduler, database, broker, and nginx. Bind the web app to 127.0.0.1:8088 by default. Keep database and media in persistent volumes. Pin compatible dependencies and record resolved versions. Use actual upstream documentation for provider adapters and library compatibility. Do not blindly adopt stale version pins or claim compatibility without testing it.

USER WORKFLOWS
1. Dashboard: list saved projects, create a project, and try an approximately 60-second local demonstration.
2. Script: write and save narration; bracketed visual directions guide imagery without being spoken. Offer local Ollama prompt-to-script generation with idea, audience, tone, and target duration. Show an editable review draft and require explicit application before replacing manual text. Preserve review state across tabs/reloads and keep writing/planning models separate. Generate a structured storyboard with editable scenes, shots, prompts, and camera directions. Deterministic planning must work without a model server.
3. Settings: landscape, portrait, and square output; dimensions; rational FPS; style; reference images; voice; music; budget ceiling; concurrency; and automatic placement. Treat target duration as advisory, not a reason to accelerate narration.
4. Production: first synthesize and measure narration, then allocate integer-frame visual placeholders and queue footage. Produce real playable local demo assets: labeled synthetic footage, eSpeak NG narration, and a locally synthesized instrumental bed. Clearly label mock imagery and estimated caption timings. Keep originals and alternate takes.
5. Editor: storyboard, media library, preview player, timeline, inspector, job queue, and export panel. Support video, overlay, title, caption, narration, music, and sound-effect tracks. Implement drag and exact-frame moves/trims, split, duplicate, delete, mute, lock, explicit take selection, fades, volume, simple position/scale transforms, snapping, zoom, persisted undo/redo, and revision conflict handling. Allow footage/image/audio import with validation, thumbnails, and proxies. Theme changes and About/Admin navigation must preserve unsaved editor input.
6. Preview/export: render a synchronized MP4 preview that supports playback and seeking. Show its revision and staleness. Export H.264/AAC MP4, SRT, WebVTT, and a portable ZIP containing a real editable OpenShot .osp project, required media, original sources, alternate takes, subtitles, revision snapshot, and a finished audio mix. Missing media blocks final export; explicit draft mode may use visibly labeled placeholders. Explain that OpenShot handoff is one-way and finished audio is baked while original sources remain available.
7. Downloads: default filenames are sanitized Project name_YYYY-MM-DD_HH-MM-SSZ plus .mp4, .zip, .srt, or .vtt. Use UTC render creation time and capture the project name at render submission. For older exports without a captured name, fall back to the current project name. Support Unicode, remove unsafe filename characters, bound length, and preserve inline media/range playback behavior.

ARCHITECTURAL INVARIANTS
- Keep the HTTP layer thin and business logic in focused services. PostgreSQL is authoritative; Redis is only a wakeup mechanism.
- Lock the project row for edits, budget reservations, job claims, and automatic placement. Use optimistic revision checks and immutable timeline/settings snapshots for renders.
- Timeline positions are integer frames with rational FPS. Measure narration duration and align scene coverage without cumulative rounding drift. Never speed narration up to fit footage. Preview and export consume the same immutable timeline specification.
- Background completion can fill only its original surviving eligible placeholder. Preserve user moves and trims. Never resurrect deleted items, unlock items, replace selected takes, or duplicate placement. Regeneration preserves history; selecting a new take is an explicit user edit.
- Use libopenshot for visual composition, keyframes, and native project serialization. Isolate system-Python binary bindings in a subprocess; do not import them into incompatible Python service runtimes. Serialize source readers before AddClip inserts runtime FrameMapper objects. Use FFmpeg for normalization, audio mixing/ducking, encoding, and inspection.
- Persist job lifecycle, provider IDs, captured models, attempts, progress, errors, leases, costs, and results. Handle out-of-order and duplicate completions, worker/broker restarts, and atomic asset ingestion.
- Never blindly retry an uncertain paid submission. Preserve its budget reservation and expose explicit operator reconciliation. Separate new submission, polling, download retries, and retrieval. Known local permission rejection can be retried explicitly after enabling permission; already-submitted tasks must remain retrievable when permissions are disabled.

ADMIN AND PROVIDER BOUNDARIES
Provide Admin screens for local Ollama discovery and separate writing/planning models, provider model identifiers and estimates, and encrypted write-only credentials with replace/clear controls. Blank credentials mean keep existing. Saved settings apply across API/workers without restarting; queued jobs retain captured models. Do not echo secrets in responses, logs, or validation errors.

Persist a paid-generation master switch plus independent text, video, audio, speech, and music switches. All categories default off. Every paid adapter checks the master and matching category both at enqueue time and immediately before new submission. Keep mock/local processing outside the paid gate. Support documented Runway video and ElevenLabs timestamped narration adapters through contract fixtures; live validation requires separate explicit permission and a defined ceiling. Do not invent provider API endpoints or pretend Suno access is available: leave unsupported paid music disabled and allow music imports. A text gateway that can call billed models must be gated, with its billing enforcement documented separately. Enforce project budgets and concurrency transactionally, including pending and uncertain charges. Saving a key or enabling a switch must never start production on its own.

APPEARANCE AND PROJECT INFORMATION
Use a consistent ScriptStudio identity: dark charcoal workspace, lime-green accent, and a dark S on a rounded, forward-slanted green tile. Create an original font-independent SVG logo and derive a matching ICO with 16, 24, 32, 48, 64, 128, and 256 pixel frames. Wire both favicons and reuse the SVG in all headers. Provide logo downloads in About.

Add a keyboard-accessible Light mode / Dark mode button to dashboard, editor, Admin, and About headers. Default to dark. Persist selection in browser storage, restore it before initial rendering, synchronize tabs, and keep switching usable if storage is unavailable. Light mode must cover inputs, menus, cards, timeline tracks/clips, status/error states, and all information pages with readable contrast; retain a neutral dark video viewing surface. Update native control color-scheme and browser theme color. Do not reload the page or lose work when switching.

Add an About this project page reachable from dashboard and editor, with foundation credits to OpenShot and the actual open-source projects used. Preserve upstream copyrights and provide the GPL-3.0-or-later project license, notices, searchable direct/transitive dependency versions and licenses, full collected notices where available, and downloadable inventories. Generate metadata from lockfiles and actual installed package/container records; document scope, provenance, regeneration, and omissions. Distinguish source-available software from OSI-approved open source: Redis 7.4 uses RSALv2 OR SSPLv1, unlike the MIT Python client. Verify terms for the actual chosen versions. Identify optional tools, externally installed model weights, and proprietary services separately. Do not imply affiliation or endorsement. Include this self-contained replication goal in About with copy, manual-select fallback, and text download controls; keep displayed, copied, and downloaded text identical. Copying the prompt must not execute it.

ACCEPTANCE AND EVIDENCE
Use local mocks and fixture HTTP transports for all paid-adapter tests. Test actual media tools and user interactions where relevant. Rebuild changed images or mount current backend source read-only so tests cannot accidentally exercise stale code. Provide and run equivalent commands to:
  docker compose run --rm --no-deps api pytest -q -p no:cacheprovider
  docker compose exec -T api python -m tools.postgres_concurrency
  npm run build --prefix frontend
  npm run test:browser --prefix frontend
  docker compose exec -T api python tools/demo.py

Cover transaction races, budgets, concurrency, completion/edit conflicts, deleted/locked/selected placeholders, retry/reconciliation behavior, restoration of submitted tasks, provider permission gates, media validation, fractional FPS, sample-aligned audio, immutable renders, and portable OpenShot sources. Exercise real worker/Redis restart recovery without deleting persistent data. In Chromium, create/plan/produce/edit/reload a project, use undo/redo, play and seek a rendered preview, export all formats, and verify downloads and filenames. Test Admin controls without authorizing paid submissions, draft review isolation, About search/notices/downloads and prompt copy fallback, theme persistence/tab synchronization, and mobile navigation. Check MIME types and byte-range responses through the actual localhost web entrypoint. Open the portable project with libopenshot and, when available, the real OpenShot desktop editor; report exactly what was and was not tested.

FINISH
Document setup, architecture, provider boundaries, backup/restore, limitations, license provenance, and reproducible verification in README, AGENTS.md, PLAN.md, NOTICE, and focused docs. Keep secrets, generated user media, caches, screenshots, and backups out of Git. Commit only scoped implementation and documentation. Deploy locally using Compose while preserving volumes, then check the real UI and health endpoint. Do not expose the installation publicly or make paid calls. Report the commit, local URL, passed checks, remaining limitations, and any genuine blockers. The goal is complete only when the functional local workflows and acceptance checks pass with documented evidence; distinguish implemented, locally tested, deployed, and live-provider-validated claims. Do not fabricate success. This prompt is a functional specification, not a promise of byte-identical generated source or identical media output.

Standalone Windows deliverable

Also produce a fully native Windows x64 EXE that contains the frontend, Python API, PostgreSQL, OpenShot with its matching isolated Python runtime, FFmpeg, and offline speech runtime. Runtime use must require no Docker, WSL, Redis, installed Python, Node, or download. Keep PostgreSQL row locks and the same coordinator; use a bounded native polling worker with fair scheduling and durable recovery instead of unsupported Windows Celery. Bind only to loopback, keep per-user projects separate from package versions, gracefully drain jobs on shutdown, and contain child processes with a Windows Job Object. Bundle SVG/ICO branding, source and notices, native component inventory, and checked payload extraction. Validate the actual Windows executable with native rendering, portable OpenShot export, browser editing, concurrency, shutdown, and restart persistence; document any clean-machine or redistribution validation still missing.
